# DAVE: Diverse Atomic Visual Elements Dataset with High Representation of Vulnerable Road Users in Complex and Unpredictable Environments

Most existing traffic video datasets e.g. the Waymo Open Motion Dataset, are collected in Western countries and consist of simple, structured, and predictable traffic. Most Asian scenarios, however, are far denser, more unstructured, and more heterogeneous, with many road-agents routinely disobeying common traffic rules. Consequently, state-of-the-art computer vision and autonomous driving perception algorithms trained on existing datasets do not transfer to traffic in Asian countries. Addressing this gap, we present a new dataset, DAVE, designed for evaluating perception methods with high representation of Vulnerable Road Users (VRUs: e.g. pedestrians, animals, motorbikes, and bicycles) in complex and unpredictable environments. DAVE is a manually annotated dataset encompassing 16 diverse actor categories (spanning animals, humans, vehicles, etc.) and 16 action types (complex and rare cases like cut-ins, zigzag movement, U-turn, etc.), which require high reasoning ability. DAVE densely annotates over 13 million bounding boxes (bboxes) actors with identification, and more than 1.6 million boxes are annotated with both actor identification and action/behavior details. The videos within DAVE are collected based on a broad spectrum of factors, such as weather conditions, the time of day, road scenarios, and traffic density. DAVE can benchmark video tasks like Tracking, Detection, Spatiotemporal Action Localization, Language-Visual Moment retrieval, and Multi-label Video Action Recognition. Given the critical importance of accurately identifying VRUs to prevent accidents and ensure road safety, in DAVE, vulnerable road users constitute 41.13% of instances, compared to 23.14% in WOMD. DAVE provides an invaluable resource for the development of more sensitive and accurate visual perception algorithms in the complex real world. Our experiments show that existing methods suffer degradation in performance when evaluated on DAVE, highlighting its benefit for future video recognition research.

# Download
[Huggingface DAVE](https://huggingface.co/datasets/XijunWang/DAVE)
